Dear Sir/Madam,  
  
I am emailing you as a constituent of yours. I am very concerned about the
government's lack of action on the housing crisis. The doubling of stamp duty 
and increasing further to 7.5% has not been sufficient to disencentivise 
commercial ventures. Another, more effective approach needs to be applied. 
The issue at it's core is that there are companies who's goal it is to buy up 
all the property they can and not contribute anything to our society. These 
REIT schemes have been banned by Germany. I propose that a similar stance is 
taken by the Irish government.  
  
I wish to make it clear, I have no issues with people having retirement plans
that have invested in housing. That can be done in a manner that is constructive
towards society as a whole. What I feel is abhorrent is companies buying up
properties and then just sitting on them as they "can't turn a profit at current
market rates'. This approach flies in the face of Article 45, section 2,
subsection iii of the Irish constitution:
  
"That, especially, the operation of free competition shall not be allowed so to
develop as to result in the concentration of the ownership or control of 
essential commodities in a few individuals to the common detriment."
  
On the 14th of May the ESRI published "Poverty, Income Inequality and Living
Standards in Ireland". In this study it has found that Irish people born after
1980 are worse off than previous generations were. In the current state of our
nation 31% of adults between the ages of 18 and 40 are home owners. If you were
between those ages in the 1970s 62% were home owners. Many of this demographic
will never be able to retire. The cost of living prevents them from being able
to contribute to a pension, and the state pension will not be sufficient to
cover their cost of living once they reach retirement age.  
  
If these issues are not addressed there can be little expectation that the
younger working population of Ireland remain in Ireland. With no support for
their future and a state all but actively seeking to sell property to businesses
rather than individuals, why would they stay? We, as a nation have a long and
storied past with emigration. We have spent so long building our good name as an
educated people, and yet our government appears to be forcing another generation
to look to emigrate.  
  
There is still time to rectify our housing crisis. There is still time to allow
us the opportunity to retire. But inaction and hesitation have for too long been
the modus operandi of Irish politics. To fix this we need the government to take
a stand on the state of our economic inequality.  
I look forward to seeing these issues addressed on a local and national level.
Yours,

